Welcome back everyone.
In this lesson we're going to talk about the use reduce or hook.
Now we're not actually going to bring this hook into our live application because as you can tell from
the name use reducer it's something that has to do with redux or a similar reducer like pattern that
we've already gotten familiar with when it comes to redux use reducer lets us actually build out reduce
our functions and leverage them estate management inside of our components the same way that you state
does except it's going to follow a similar flow of data of firing actions and then those actions changing
a reduce or object of some kind.
The way that we've seen with redux except localized to a component now this use reduced hook is really
great in places where you need more complex local state management and a great place to see this is
actually our use effect example.
So this example here that I've got is pretty much just our use effect example except the name is modified
to use reducer and in this lesson we are going to switch this components use of you state over to the
new use reduce our hook what we need to do is import use reducer from react and the use reduce hook.
You'll notice when we write out this code is going to resemble very closely to the redux code that we're
already used to writing.
The only difference is that we have to use some of the Rehab Act Cooke style of writing out this code.
So what we'll do is we will first understand what it is that use reducer gives us back.
And it's very similar to our use statehood.
We're gonna cut costs where we get back and d structure off the array values from the array we get back
from user reducer and the two things we're going to structure off is the state as the first thing which
means that this is the current state of our reducer as well as dispatch dispatch being the literal function
that we get that allows us to pass actions to our reducer then in order for us to instantiate this reducer
we pass it to things the first thing we pass it is the reducer itself the reducer being the function
that gets both a state in an action and then using a switch statement returns us back some object that
represents our state.
This is pretty much every reducer that we've ever written in redux.
It's the exact same thing and then the second argument being the actual initial state value.
So if you're familiar with redux and reducer as we just have to pass initial state into our use reduce
our call instead of setting it as the default state value when we write our reduced function.
But let's actually see this.
So the first thing we're going to do is initialize our initial state and we're going to set it equal
to some object that is equal to our user being null and our search query being bred.
So what we've done here is we've pretty much done the exact same initial state for our used state hooks.
So now we can remove these
and continue writing our reducer.
Now the reducer itself is some function that gets the state and the action as the parameters and what
we're going to do is write a switch statement checking the action type and then based on the case of
what we get back we're going to do and return different objects.
Pretty much just like every reducer we've written.
So here we're going to say if it's set user we're going to return a new object where we spread in the
state as we're always used to doing and then setting user equal to actioned up palette.
So there's nothing new here.
In fact case is gonna do the same thing.
We're just going to say set search query is equal to the return of the object where we spread and state
and update search query with action dog Halo
finally as we're always know with the default return case.
We just want to return state.
So this reducer is pretty much the exact same reducer that you're used to writing.
We also need to create our action creators.
So our set user is going to take a user object and return us back an object or type goes to set user
and the payload is the user similarly such search query.
We'll be pretty much the exact same type of function where we get some query string and we return back
an object or type is set search query
and the payload is the query string
so nothing new.
Everything here is pretty much the exact same thing that you're used to seeing.
Whenever we implemented our original redux producers now the only difference is how we end up using
this.
So here what we want to do is we want to pull off the values from our state that we want to use.
So we're just going to d structure off the user and the search query from our state object next what
we need to do is actually dispatch the appropriate actions.
And because before we've named our actions the same as what we had it inside of our old use affect example.
This is that user and this set search query is literally just using our action creator functions that
we just wrote now.
So we're passing in the object that we get back and we are creating this new action.
So we just want to dispatch this action that we're creating from this function call into our reducer.
So we simply just wrap that inside of our dispatch and just like that it's going to work exactly the
same way as we had it before.
The only difference is now we're using this reducer and as you might have noticed it looks pretty much
the exact same as the reducer code we're used to writing with redux.
So if we go back to our application now we see that when I type in Samantha it behaves the same way
as it was before when we're using state except we've managed to move every code into a use reduce our
hook.
So this is pretty much all the use reducer hook is it's a native react way of implementing redux and
sometimes it's actually very useful to use this when you need something a little bit more miniscule
than a full redux implementation inside of your application but you think you need something more complex
than simply just using you state.
This is a great time to use use reducer because you have access to the state object inside of your reducer
so that you can modify your state values however you want as you typically would with redux.
So you get all of the redux functionality of course minus the asynchronous event handling except you
can do it now with conjunction of your use of fact hooks you stay at hooks if you also want but generally
speaking you only want to use a use reducer or you state separately but with this you'll notice that
now the code looks way closer to what we wrote with our redux implementation.
So this is actually the direction that react wants to move as well.
It values the ducks library and its flow and the benefits that it brings.
But it's trying to abstract away some of that complexity by allowing you to write this use reducer hook
inside of your components you don't have to break up all these files and make all these action creators.
But again there's pros and cons of both.
So hopefully with this you understand the use reducer hook and now you're pretty well equipped to understand
and use hooks inside of applications or projects that you join or start yourself.